Title

Shape Them Up

--------------------------------------

Description

Shape Them Up is a side scroller action minimalistic game.
You control a square in the lower left corner of the screen, trying to avoid or
destroy the evil pentagons coming your way.

Mechanics:
  Jump (press up):
    Can be used anytime while grounded
    Can be used midair once if refreshed*
    Height and duration are fixed
  Dash (press right):
    Can be used anytime while grounded
    Can be used midair once if refreshed*
      If used midair, halts your descent
    If you collide with an enemy mid dash, the enemy will be destroyed
  Fast Fall (press down):
    Can be used midair to halt horizontally
    If you collide with an enemy mid fast fall, the enemy will be destroyed and
    you will get a small vertical boost.
  Combos:
    A combo is a streak of N enemies you kill before touching the ground again.
    Every 5 enemies, you will be healed 1HP.
    Every 10 enemies, if you are at max health, you will increase your max health
    Also, longer combos net you more points per kill.
      At 4 enemies or less, the next kill will be worth 1 point.
      At 9 or less, 2 points.
      At 14 or less, 3 points.
    And so on
  Speed:
    The more enemies you kill, the faster you go, so you will have to think faster
    in order to keep these combos going.

* Destroying an enemy with a dash will refresh both your dash and your midair jump,
while destroying an enemy with a Fast Fall will only refresh your midair dash.
Touching the ground also refreshes your midair dash, but not your midair jump.

--------------------------------------

How the game matches the theme

All mechanics in the game reinforce one another, and can be used in multiple
ways by exploring their interactions.
For example, the midair dash. You could use it anytime after leaving ground,
but that's not enough to net you some long combos. To position yourself properly,
you need to think if you want to dash immediately followed by a jump, or if you
want to jump later to maximize the stall, or if you just want to keep dashing
through a row of enemies that aligned so politely to meet you.
That's not even the beggining. You could air dash through an enemy, cancel it
with your recently acquired midair jump, dash again just for a split second and
plummet down on an unsuspecting 5-sided regular polygon, use the bounce from the
hit to position yourself and hit the next enemy with an air dash. And that was
just a 3 hit combo.
Not just that, but the fact that healing is tied so closely to comboing means
the player can't just play safe and stick close to the ground: they HAVE to combo
in order to heal, so they are forced to use the interactions mentioned above if
they want to live longer.

--------------------------------------

Platforms

Meant to run on Windows

--------------------------------------

Third party resources

Game engine: Unity3D v5.6.2f1 Personal (64bit)
Sound effect creation: Bfxr and Audacity

--------------------------------------

Credits

Murilo "Mickey" Bernard Theodoro      Design, Coding
William "VVilliam" Quelho Ferreira    Design, Sound, Coding

And a special thanks to all the people who have contributed to the tools above.
